====== Parameters ======

Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki Wiki-Format: zim 0.4


Parameters


Created Saturday 26 May 2018



Type
The next section is type of file system for that partition. Linux supports a variety of file systems, few might need
some packages to be able to perform read/write on them. We are looking only over a few of them:






→ ext3 : Most of the systems these days have ext3 linux partitions. Older systems had ext2 type filesystems but now
ext3 has replaced it for its advantages. Ext3 is journaled, that is, if the power goes off and system is not properly
shut down, no data will be lost, therefore, no time wasted in disc checks.
Note: Some distros are shipping with ext4 as default.



→ swap : Name stands for itself. “Swap” partition is of type “swap”.



→ ntfs and vfat : You will find your pendrives in vfat format (also known as FAT32) and windows drives in ntfs format.



→ auto : When you find written “auto” in this column, it doesn’t signify type but automatic detection of filesystem
type.



Options
This section of fstab contains mount options for partitions. This section can seem really confusing at first but
knowing few them can get you through it. Popular ones are discussed here while rest can be checked on man page of mount
.







	auto/noauto




With auto , the partition will automatically be mounted on a system boot. You can prevent a partition from automounting
on bootup by editing option to noauto in fstab file.




	exec/noexec




It lets you choose whether the partition can execute binaries or not. For example, you can give a partition noexec
which contains binaries and you don’t want them to execute.




	ro/rw




ro is for read-only partition while rw denotes read-write partition. To be able to write on a partition, it should have
rw option in fstab file.




	user/nouser




With nouser as an option, only root has privilege of mounting a partition while user allows any non-root user to mount
a partition. Many users find it annoying that they can’t mount a partition as a normal user, well, now you know that
solution is to update your fstab file.




	sync/async




It is responsible for files being written synchronously and asynchronously. In layman words, when you issue a “copy”
command on a pendrive, writing process starts as soon as command is issued but this is not the case with internal hard
drives. Write operations on hard disks are not synchronised, that is, writing might start long after command was
issued. This is the reason for error “wait while changes are being wriiten”. This can also cause accidental data loss.
If async is set, it might appear that files are successfully written but they might not be physically written.




	defaults




It sets all the default options: rw, suid, dev, exec, auto, nouser, async.



dump
This is the fifth column in fstab file. It has zeros and ones as entries, zero is for false and one is for true . It is
an old school method of backing up. Backup will be performed if option is “1”. In case of “0” option dump will ignore
the partition.





fsck
fsck is short form for file system check. This makes the 6th column for fstab file. You will see 0,1 or 2 written in
this section. “0” denotes that the partition will be skipped from checking. “1” is for partition which will be checked
at booting time. These numbers are actually the sequence in which they will be checked. Root (/root) partition is
always set at 1, partitions other than root which are supposed to be checked should be set at 2.