====== Options ======

Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki Wiki-Format: zim 0.4


Options


Created Tuesday 15 May 2018



OPTIONS

  -b, --remove-all

  
    Remove all extended ACL entries. The base ACL entries of the owner,
    group and others are retained.




    
      -k, --remove-default

      
        Remove the Default ACL. If no Default ACL exists, no warnings are
        issued.




        
          -n, --no-mask

          
            Do not recalculate the effective rights mask. The default behavior
            of setfacl is to recalculate the ACL mask entry, unless a mask
            entry was explicitly given. The mask entry is set to the union of
            all permissions of the owning group, and all named user and group
            entries. (These are exactly the entries affected by the mask
            entry).




            
              --mask

              
                Do recalculate the effective rights mask, even if an ACL mask entry
                was explicitly given. (See the -n option.)




                
                  -d, --default

                  
                    All operations apply to the Default ACL. Regular ACL entries in the
                    input set are promoted to Default ACL entries. Default ACL entries
                    in the input set are discarded. (A warning is issued if that hap‐
                    pens).




                    
                      --restore=file

                      
                        Restore a permission backup created by `getfacl -R' or similar. All
                        permissions of a complete directory subtree are restored using this
                        mechanism. If the input contains owner comments or group comments,
                        setfacl attempts to restore the owner and owning group. If the
                        input contains flags comments (which define the setuid, setgid, and
                        sticky bits), setfacl sets those three bits accordingly; otherwise,
                        it clears them. This option cannot be mixed with other options
                        except `--test'.




                        --test
                        
                          Test mode. Instead of changing the ACLs of any files, the resulting
                          ACLs are listed.




                          
                            -R, --recursive

                            
                              Apply operations to all files and directories recursively. This
                              option cannot be mixed with `--restore'.




                              
                                -L, --logical

                                
                                  Logical walk, follow symbolic links to directories. The default
                                  behavior is to follow symbolic link arguments, and skip symbolic
                                  links encountered in subdirectories. Only effective in combination
                                  with -R. This option cannot be mixed with `--restore'.




                                  
                                    -P, --physical

                                    
                                      Physical walk, do not follow symbolic links to directories. This
                                      also skips symbolic link arguments. Only effective in combination
                                      with -R. This option cannot be mixed with `--restore'.




                                      
                                        -v, --version

                                        
                                          Print the version of setfacl and exit.




                                          
                                            -h, --help

                                            
                                              Print help explaining the command line options.




                                              
                                                -- End of command line options. All remaining parameters are inter‐

                                                
                                                  preted as file names, even if they start with a dash.




                                                  
                                                    - If the file name parameter is a single dash, setfacl reads a list

                                                    
                                                      of files from standard input.