====== Linux File Permissions ======

Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki Wiki-Format: zim 0.4


Linux File Permissions


Created Wednesday 24 January 2018



Permission bits
To get a deeper understanding of how the operating system interprets the permissions we have to dig into how bit
numbers represent the read/write/execute permissions. The bits are as mentioned before represented by numbers ranging
from 0-7. The table below shows what each number represents.






In most cases 0,4,5,6,7 bits are used. So we will focus on those. Starting out with directory access based on the
information previously described, we know that to perform access to a directory we have to have read and execute
permissions. So for a given folder say /plexmedialibrary we would need to have the bits set to 700 which represents
drwx—— permissions for the owner to access that dir. If we want a group of users to access that directory, say all
users on a system that reside in a group named users we would have to set the permissions bits to 750 which translates
into drwxr-x—. And note here that we are not granting group access to modify the directory, only to access and read it.
To permit all users no matter what group they are a member of access to the directory we would set 755 that translates
into dwrxr-xr-x. When it comes to files the approach is again similar, but with permissions bits set that suit files.
For a given user to get access to a file, say /plexmedialibrary/witwicky.mkv, we would need to set read permissions for
the user, this would be permission bit wise be equivalent to 600 which translates into -rw——-. To provide both user and
group access to the file, we would set the bits to 640 which translates into -rw-r—–. Note that again we are not
granting the group rights to modify the file. For all users and services on a system to access your file permission
bits would have to be 644 which again translates into -rw-r–r–.



Now that we have gone over the basic structure of read write and execute bits for directories and files, we can move on
to the tools and how we use them. Linux uses 3 tools to control basic access rights. One for controlling the owner of
directories/files: chown. One for controlling what group has access to directories/files: chgrp. And one command for
modifying the permission bits: chmod.