====== cwebp encoding instructions ======

Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki Wiki-Format: zim 0.4


cwebp encoding instructions


Created Sunday 08 April 2018



cwebp
Name
cwebp -- Compress an image file to a WebP file



Synopsis
cwebp [options] input_file -o output_file.webp



Description
cwebp compresses an image using the WebP format. Input format can be either PNG, JPEG, TIFF, WebP or raw Y'CbCr
samples.



Options
The basic options are:



-o string
Specify the name of the output WebP file. If omitted, cwebp will perform compression but only report statistics. Using
"-" as output name will direct output to 'stdout'.



-- string
Explicitly specify the input file. This option is useful if the input file starts with an '-' for instance. This option
must appear last. Any other options afterward will be ignored.



-h, -help
A short usage summary.



-H, -longhelp
A summary of all the possible options.



-version
Print the version number (as major.minor.revision) and exit.



-lossless
Encode the image without any loss. For images with fully transparent area, the invisible pixel values (R/G/B or Y/U/V)
will be preserved only if the -exact option is used.



-q float
Specify the compression factor for RGB channels between 0 and 100. The default is 75.



In case of lossy compression (default), a small factor produces a smaller file with lower quality. Best quality is
achieved by using a value of 100.



In case of lossless compression (specified by the -lossless option), a small factor enables faster compression speed,
but produces a larger file. Maximum compression is achieved by using a value of 100.



-z int
Switch on lossless compression mode with the specified level between 0 and 9, with level 0 being the fastest, 9 being
the slowest. Fast mode produces larger file size than slower ones. A good default is -z 6. This option is actually a
shortcut for some predefined settings for quality and method. If options -q or -m are subsequently used, they will
invalidate the effect of this option.



-alpha_q int
Specify the compression factor for alpha compression between 0 and 100. Lossless compression of alpha is achieved using
a value of 100, while the lower values result in a lossy compression. The default is 100.



-preset string
Specify a set of pre-defined parameters to suit a particular type of source material. Possible values are: default,
photo, picture, drawing, icon, text.



Since -preset overwrites the other parameters' values (except the -q one), this option should preferably appear first
in the order of the arguments.



-m int
Specify the compression method to use. This parameter controls the trade off between encoding speed and the compressed
file size and quality. Possible values range from 0 to 6. Default value is 4. When higher values are used, the encoder
will spend more time inspecting additional encoding possibilities and decide on the quality gain. Lower value can
result in faster processing time at the expense of larger file size and lower compression quality.



-resize width height
Resize the source to a rectangle with size width x height. If either (but not both) of the width or height parameters
is 0, the value will be calculated preserving the aspect-ratio.



-crop x_position y_position width height
Crop the source to a rectangle with top-left corner at coordinates (x_position, y_position) and size width x height.
This cropping area must be fully contained within the source rectangle.



-mt
Use multi-threading for encoding, if possible.



-low_memory
Reduce memory usage of lossy encoding by saving four times the compressed size (typically). This will make the encoding
slower and the output slightly different in size and distortion. This flag is only effective for methods 3 and up, and
is off by default. Note that leaving this flag off will have some side effect